Ready for review: Payment and address form best practices (#4280)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/payment-and-address-form-best-practices/index.md

---
title: Payment and address form best practices
subhead: Maximize conversions by helping your users complete address and payment forms as quickly and easily as possible.
authors:
  - samdutton
scheduled: true
date: 2020-11-21
updated: 2020-11-21
description: Maximize conversions by helping your users complete address and payment forms as quickly and easily as possible.
hero: images/hero.jpg
thumbnail: images/thumbnail.jpg
alt: Businessman using a payment card to make a payment on a laptop computer.
tags:
  - blog
  - forms
  - identity
  - layout
  - mobile
  - payments
  - security
  - ux
---

<!-- codelabs:
  - codelab-payment-and-address-form-best-practices
 -->

<!--  {% YouTube 'alGcULGtiv8' %} -->

Well-designed forms help users and increase conversion rates. One small fix can make a big 
difference. 

{% Aside 'codelab' %}

>   If you would prefer to learn these best practices with a hands-on tutorial,
>   check out the [payment and address form best practices codelab](/codelab-payment-and-address-form-best-practices).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you prefer to learn these best practices with a hands-on tutorial,
  check out the [payment and address form best practices codelab](/codelab-payment-and-address-form-best-practices).
```

{% endAside %}

Here is an example of a simple payment form that demonstrates all of the best practices:

{% Glitch {
  id: 'payment-form',
  path: 'index.html',
  height: 620
} %}

Here is an example of a simple address form that demonstrates all of the best practices:

{% Glitch {
  id: 'address-form',
  path: 'index.html',
  height: 730
} %}

## Checklist

* [Use meaningful HTML elements](#meaningful-html): `<form>`, `<input>`, `<label>`, and `<button>`.
* [Label each form field with a `<label>`](#html-label).
* Use HTML element attributes to [access built-in browser features](#html-attributes), in particular 
[`type`](#type-attribute) and [`autocomplete`](#autocomplete-attribute) with appropriate values.

> * Avoid using `type="number"` for numbers such as payment card numbers that aren't meant to be 
> incremented. Use `type="text"` and [`inputmode="numeric"`](#inputmode-attribute) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid using `type="number"` for numbers that aren't meant to be 
incremented, such as payment card numbers. Use `type="text"` and [`inputmode="numeric"`](#inputmode-attribute) instead.
```

* If an [appropriate autocomplete value](#autocomplete-attribute) is available for an `input`, 

> `select` or `textarea`, you should use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`select`, or `textarea`, you should use it.
```

* To help browsers autofill forms, give input `name` and `id` attributes [stable values](#stable-name-id) 
that don't change between page loads or website deployments.
* [Disable submit buttons](#disable-submit) once they've been tapped or clicked.

> * [Validate](#validate) during data entry—not just on form submission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Validate](#validate) data during entry—not just on form submission.
```

* Make [guest checkout](#guest-checkout) the default and make account creation simple once checkout 
is complete.
* Show [progress through the checkout process](#checkout-progress) in clear steps with clear calls 
to action.
* [Limit potential checkout exit points](#reduce-checkout-exits) by removing clutter and distractions.

> * At checkout [show full order details](#checkout-details) and make it easy for orders to be adjusted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Show full order details](#checkout-details) at checkout and make order adjustments easy.
```

* [Don't ask for data you don't need](#unneeded-data).
* [Ask for names with a single input](#single-name-input) unless you have a good reason not to.
* [Don't enforce Latin-only characters](#unicode-matching) for names and usernames.
* [Allow for a variety of address formats](#address-variety).

> * Consider using a [single textarea for address](#address-textarea).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Consider using a [single `textarea` for address](#address-textarea).
```

* Use [autocomplete for billing address](#billing-address).
* [Internationalize and localize](#internationalization-localization) where necessary.
* Consider avoiding [postal code address lookup](#postal-code-address-lookup).
* Use [appropriate payment card autocomplete values](#payment-form-autocomplete).
* Use a [single input for payment card numbers](#single-number-input).
* [Avoid using custom elements](#avoid-custom-elements) if they break the autofill experience.
* [Test in the field as well as the lab](#analytics-rum): page analytics, interaction analytics, and 
real-user performance measurement.

> * [Test on a range of browsers, devices and platforms](#test-platforms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Test on a range of browsers, devices, and platforms](#test-platforms).
```

{% Aside %}
This article is about frontend best practices for address and payment forms. It does not explain 

> how to implement transactions on your site. To find out more adding payment functionality to your 
> website on the web, see [Web Payments](/payments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how to implement transactions on your site. To find out more about adding payment functionality to your 
website, see [Web Payments](/payments).
```

{% endAside %}

## Use meaningful HTML {: #meaningful-html}

Use the elements and attributes built for the job: 
* `<form>`, `<input>`, `<label>`, and `<button>`

> * `type`, `autocomplete` and `inputmode`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `type`, `autocomplete`, and `inputmode`
```

These enable built-in browser functionality, improve accessibility, and add meaning to your markup.

### Use HTML elements as intended {: #html-elements}

#### Put your form in a &lt;form&gt; {: #html-form}

> You might be tempted not to bother wrapping your `<input>`s in a `<form>`, and to handle data 
>   submission purely with JavaScript. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be tempted not to bother wrapping your `<input>` elements in a `<form>`, and to handle data 
  submission purely with JavaScript. 
```

Don't do it!

An HTML `<form>` gives you access to a powerful set of built-in features across all modern browsers, 
  and can help make your site accessible to screen readers and other assistive devices. A `<form>` 
  also makes it simpler to build basic functionality for older browsers with limited JavaScript 
  support, and to enable form submission even if there's a glitch with your code—and for the 
  small number of users who actually disable JavaScript.

If you have more than one page component for user input, make sure to put each in its own `<form>` 
  element. For example, if you have search and sign-up on the same page, put each in its own `<form>`.

#### Use `<label>` to label elements {: #html-label}

> To label an `<input>`, `<select>` or `<textarea>`, use a [`<label>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/label).
> 
> You associate a label with an input by giving the label's `for` attribute the same value as 
> the input's `id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To label an `<input>`, `<select>`, or `<textarea>`, use a [`<label>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/label).

Associate a label with an input by giving the label's `for` attribute the same value as 
the input's `id`.
```

> To label an `<input>`, `<select>` or `<textarea>`, use a [`<label>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/label).
> 
> You associate a label with an input by giving the label's `for` attribute the same value as 
> the input's `id`.
> 
> ```html
> <label for="address-line1">Address line 1</label>
> <input id="address-line1" …>
> ```
> Use a single label for a single input: don't try to label multiple inputs with only one label. This 
> works best for browsers, and best for screenreaders. A tap or click on a label moves focus to the input 
> it's associated with, and screenreaders announce label text when the *label* or the label's *input* 
> gets focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To label an `<input>`, `<select>`, or `<textarea>`, use a [`<label>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/label).

Associate a label with an input by giving the label's `for` attribute the same value as 
the input's `id`.

```html
<label for="address-line1">Address line 1</label>
<input id="address-line1" …>
```
Use a single label for a single input: don't try to label multiple inputs with only one label. This 
works best for browsers, and best for screenreaders. A tap or click on a label moves focus to the input 
it's associated with, and screenreaders announce label text when the *label* or the label's *input* 
gets focus.
```

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> [Placeholders](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/06/placeholder-attribute/) can be handy, but 
> don't use them on their own instead of labels. Once you start entering text in an input, the 
> placeholder is hidden, so it can be easy to forget what the input is for. The same is true if 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't use [placeholders](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/06/placeholder-attribute/) 
on their own instead of labels. Once you start entering text in an input, the 
placeholder is hidden, so it can be easy to forget what the input is for. The same is true if 
```

you use the placeholder to show the correct format for values such as dates. This can be especially 
problematic for users on phones, particularly if they're distracted or feeling stressed! 
{% endAside %}

#### Make buttons helpful {: #html-button}

> Use [`<button>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button)
> for buttons! You can also use `<input type="submit">`, but there's no point in using a div or some 
> other random element acting as a button. Button elements provide accessible behaviour and built-in 
> form submission functionality, and can easily be styled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [`<button>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button)
for buttons! You can also use `<input type="submit">`, but don't use a `div` or some 
other random element acting as a button. Button elements provide accessible behaviour, built-in 
form submission functionality, and can easily be styled. 
```

Give each form submit button a value that says what it does. For each step towards checkout, use 
a descriptive call-to-action that shows progress and makes the next step obvious. For example, label 
the submit button on your delivery address form **Proceed to Payment** rather than **Continue** 
or **Save**.

> {: #disable-submit}

Reviewer: Subheading is missing here, I'm not sure what level it should be (3 or 4?) so I'll leave it to you.

Reviewer: Okay, upon reading through and seeing a few more anchors without subheading, I suppose that's intentional omission.

Consider disabling a submit button once the user has tapped or clicked it—especially when the user is 

> making payment or placing an order. Many users click buttons repeatedly, even if they're working fine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
making a payment or placing an order. Many users click buttons repeatedly, even if they're working fine. 
```

That can mess up checkout and add to server load. 

On the other hand, don't disable a submit button waiting on complete and valid user input. For 
example, don't just leave a **Save Address** button disabled because something is missing or invalid. 
That doesn't help the user—they may continue to tap or click the button and assume that it's broken. 

> Instead, explain to the user what's gone wrong and what they need to do if they attempt to submit 
> the form with invalid data. This is particularly important on mobile, where data entry is more 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, if users attempt to submit a form with invalid data, explain to them what's gone wrong 
and what to do to fix it. This is particularly important on mobile, where data entry is more 
```

difficult and missing or invalid form data may not be visible on the user's screen by the time they 
attempt to submit a form.

### Make the most of HTML attributes {: #html-attributes}

#### Make it easy for users to enter data

{: #type-attribute}

Use the appropriate input [`type` attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/email) 
to provide the right keyboard on mobile and enable basic built-in validation by the browser. 

For example, use `type="email"` for email addresses and `type="tel"` for phone numbers.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="images/input-type.jpg" alt="Two screenshots of Android phones, showing a keyboard appropriate 
  for entering an email addresss (using type=email) and for entering a telephone number (with type=tel).">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Keyboards appropriate for email and telephone.</figcaption>
</figure>

{: #inputmode-attribute}

{% Aside 'warning' %}
Using type="number" adds an up/down arrow to increment numbers, which makes no sense for data such as 

> telephone, payment card or account numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
telephone, payment card, or account numbers.
```

> telephone, payment card, or account numbers.

Reviewer 2: For a telephone, you can use `type="tel"`. Including it here sounds like you recommend using a combination of `type="text"` and `inputmode="numeric"` instead for a telephone as well.

Author: Yes! Just realised this myself... Tweaked.

> Instead, you should set `type="text"` (or leave off the attribute, since `text` is the default) and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, set `type="text"` (or leave off the attribute, since `text` is the default) and 
```

> Instead, you should set `type="text"` (or leave off the attribute, since `text` is the default) and 
> specify `inputmode="numeric"`, to get a numeric keyboard on mobile. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, to get a numeric keyboard on mobile set `type="text"` (or leave off the attribute, since `text` is the default) and specify `inputmode="numeric"`. 
```

To ensure that users get the right keyboard, some sites still use `type="tel"` for payment card 
numbers. However, `inputmode` is [very widely supported now](https://caniuse.com/input-inputmode), 
so you shouldn't have to do that, but check your users' browsers.
{% endAside %}

{: #avoid-custom-elements}

> For dates, try to avoid using custom select elements, since they break the autofill experience if not 
> properly implemented, and don't work on older browsers. For numbers such as birth year, consider 
> using an input element rather than a select, since entering digits manually can be easier and less 
> error prone than selecting from a long drop-down list—especially on mobile. Use `inputmode="numeric"` 
> to ensure the right keyboard on mobile and add validation and format hints with text or a 
> placeholder to make sure the user enters data in the appropriate format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For dates, try to avoid using custom select elements. They break the autofill experience if not 
properly implemented and don't work on older browsers. For numbers such as birth year, consider 
using an input element rather than a select, since entering digits manually can be easier and less 
error prone than selecting from a long drop-down list—especially on mobile. Use `inputmode="numeric"` 
to ensure the right keyboard on mobile and add validation and format hints with text or a 
placeholder to make sure the user enters data in the appropriate format.
```

> placeholder to make sure the user enters data in the appropriate format.

Reviewer 2: Why don't you recommend `input[type="date"]`?

Author: Hmm... Good point. I think mainly because that doesn't seem to be the norm. I'll take a look.

{% Aside %}

> The [datalist](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/datalist) element enables 
> a user to select from a list of available options and provides matching suggestions as the user enters text. 
> Try out datalist for `text`, `range` and `color` inputs at [simpl.info/datalist](https://simpl.info/datalist).
> For birth year input, you can compare a select with an input and datalist at [datalist-select.glitch.me](https://datalist-select.glitch.me).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`datalist`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/datalist) element enables 
a user to select from a list of available options and provides matching suggestions as the user enters text. 
Try out `datalist` for `text`, `range` and `color` inputs at [simpl.info/datalist](https://simpl.info/datalist).
For birth year input, you can compare a `select` with an `input` and `datalist` at [datalist-select.glitch.me](https://datalist-select.glitch.me).
```

{% endAside %}

#### Use autocomplete to improve accessibility and help users avoid re-entering data {: #autocomplete-attribute}

> Using appropriate `autocomplete` values enables browsers to help users by securely storing data and 
> autofilling `input`, `select` and `textarea` values. This is particularly important on mobile, and 
> crucial for avoiding [high form abandonment rates](https://www.zuko.io/blog/8-surprising-insights-from-zukos-benchmarking-data). Autocomplete also provides [multiple accessibility benefits](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/identify-input-purpose.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using appropriate `autocomplete` values enables browsers to help users by securely storing data and 
autofilling `input`, `select`, and `textarea` values. This is particularly important on mobile, and 
crucial for avoiding [high form abandonment rates](https://www.zuko.io/blog/8-surprising-insights-from-zukos-benchmarking-data). Autocomplete also provides [multiple accessibility benefits](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/identify-input-purpose.html).
```

If an appropriate autocomplete value is available for a form field, you should use it. [MDN web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/autocomplete) has a full list of values and explanations of how to use 
them correctly.

{: #stable-name-id}

{% Aside %}
As well as using appropriate autocomplete values, help browsers autofill forms by giving form fields 
`name` and `id` attributes [stable values](#stable-name-id) that don't change between page loads or 
website deployments.
{% endAside %}

{: #billing-address}

> By default, set the billing address to be the same as the delivery address. Reduce visual clutter by 
> providing a link to edit the billing address (or use [summary and details elements](https://simpl.info/details/)) 
> rather than displaying the billing address in a form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, set the billing address to be the same as the delivery address. Reduce visual clutter by 
providing a link to edit the billing address (or use [`summary` and `details` elements](https://simpl.info/details/)) 
rather than displaying the billing address in a form.
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="images/review-order.png" alt="Example checkout page showing link 
  to change billing address.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Add a link to review billing.</figcaption>
</figure>

Use appropriate autocomplete values for billing name and address, just as you do for shipping address, 
so the user doesn't have to enter the same data twice. Add a prefix word to autocomplete attributes 
if you have different values for inputs with the same name in different sections.

```html
<input autocomplete="shipping address-line-1" ...>
...
<input autocomplete="billing address-line-1" ...>
```

#### Help users enter the right data {: #validation}

> Try to avoid 'telling off' customers because they 'did something wrong'. Instead, help users complete 
> forms more quickly and easily by helping them fix problems as they happen. Through the checkout process, 
> customers are trying to give your company money for a product or service—your job is to assist them, 
> not to punish them!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try to avoid "telling off" customers because they "did something wrong". Instead, help users complete 
forms more quickly and easily by helping them fix problems as they happen. Through the checkout process, 
customers are trying to give your company money for a product or service—your job is to assist them, 
not to punish them!
```

You can add [constraint attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/HTML5/Constraint_validation#Intrinsic_and_basic_constraints) to form elements to specify acceptable 

> values, including `min`, `max` and `pattern`. The [validity state](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ValidityState) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
values, including `min`, `max`, and `pattern`. The [validity state](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ValidityState) 
```

{% Glitch {
  id: 'payment-card-input',
  path: 'index.html',
  height: 170
} %}

Modern browsers also do basic validation for inputs with type `email` or `url`. 

{% Glitch {
  id: 'type-validation',
  path: 'index.html',
  height: 250
} %}

On form submission, browsers automatically set focus on fields with problematic or missing required 
values. No JavaScript required! 

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="images/invalid-email.png" alt="Screenshot of a sign-in form in 
  Chrome on desktop showing browser prompt and focus for an invalid email value." width="500">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Basic built-in validation by the browser.</figcaption>
</figure>

Validate inline and provide feedback to the user as they enter data, rather than providing a list of 
errors when they click the submit button. If you need to validate data on your server after form 
submission, list all problems that are found and clearly highlight all form fields with invalid 
values, as well as displaying a message inline next to each problematic field explaining what needs 
to be fixed. Check server logs and analytics data for common errors—you may need to redesign your form.

> You should also use JavaScript to do more robust validation while users are entering data and when 
> on form submission. Use the [Constraint Validation API](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/forms.html#constraints) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should also use JavaScript to do more robust validation while users are entering data and 
on form submission. Use the [Constraint Validation API](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/forms.html#constraints) 
```

(which is [widely supported](https://caniuse.com/#feat=constraint-validation)) to add custom 
validation using built-in browser UI to set focus and display prompts.

> Find out more: [Use JavaScript for more complex real-time validation](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/design-and-ux/input/forms#use_javascript_for_more_complex_real-time_validation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find out more in [Use JavaScript for more complex real-time validation](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/design-and-ux/input/forms#use_javascript_for_more_complex_real-time_validation).
```

{% Aside 'warning' %}
Even with client-side validation and data input constraints, you must still ensure that your 
back-end securely handles input and output of data from users. Never trust user input: it could be 

> malicious. Find out more: [OWASP Input Validation Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
malicious. Find out more in [OWASP Input Validation Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet.html).
```

{% endAside %}

#### Help users avoid missing required data {: #autocomplete-attribute}

Use the [`required` attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/required) 
on inputs for mandatory values.

When a form is submitted [modern browsers](https://caniuse.com/mdn-api_htmlinputelement_required) 
automatically prompt and set focus on `required` fields with missing data, and you can use the 
[`:required` pseudo-class](https://caniuse.com/?search=required) to highlight required fields. No 
JavaScript required!

Add an asterisk to the label for every required field, and add a note at the start of the form to 
explain what the asterisk means.

## Simplify checkout {: #checkout-forms}

### Mind the mobile commerce gap! {: #m-commerce-gap}

> Imagine that your users have a **fatigue budget**. Use it up, and your users will leave. 
> 
> You need to reduce friction and maintain focus, especially on mobile. Many sites get more **traffic** 
> on mobile but more **conversions** on desktop—a phenomenon known as the [mobile commerce gap](https://www.comscore.com/Insights/Presentations-and-Whitepapers/2017/Mobiles-Hierarchy-of-Needs). Customers may simply prefer to 
> complete a purchase on desktop, but lower mobile conversion rates are also a result of poor user 
> experience. Your job is to **minimize** lost conversions on mobile and **maximize** conversions 
> on desktop. [Research has shown](https://www.comscore.com/Insights/Presentations-and-Whitepapers/2017/Mobiles-Hierarchy-of-Needs) that there's a huge opportunity to provide a better mobile form experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine that your users have a *fatigue budget*. Use it up, and your users will leave. 

You need to reduce friction and maintain focus, especially on mobile. Many sites get more *traffic* 
on mobile but more *conversions* on desktop—a phenomenon known as the [mobile commerce gap](https://www.comscore.com/Insights/Presentations-and-Whitepapers/2017/Mobiles-Hierarchy-of-Needs). Customers may simply prefer to 
complete a purchase on desktop, but lower mobile conversion rates are also a result of poor user 
experience. Your job is to *minimize* lost conversions on mobile and *maximize* conversions 
on desktop. [Research has shown](https://www.comscore.com/Insights/Presentations-and-Whitepapers/2017/Mobiles-Hierarchy-of-Needs) that there's a huge opportunity to provide a better mobile form experience. 
```

> Most of all, users are more likely to abandon forms that look long, complex and without a sense of 
> direction—especially on smaller screens and when users are distracted or in a rush. Ask for as 
> little data as possible.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of all, users are more likely to abandon forms that look long, that are complex, and without a sense of 
direction. This is especially true when users are on smaller screens, distracted, or in a rush. Ask for as 
little data as possible.

```

For an online store, the simplest way to reduce form friction is to make guest checkout the default. 
Don't force users to create an account before making a purchase. Not allowing guest checkout is cited 
as a major reason for shopping cart abandonment.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="images/shopping-cart-abandonment.png" alt="Reasons for shopping 
  cart abandonment during checkout.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">From <a href="https://baymard.com/checkout-usability">baymard.com/checkout-usability</a></figcaption>
</figure>

You can offer account sign-up after checkout.  At that point, you already have most of the data you 
need to set up an account, so account creation should be quick and easy for the user. 

{% Aside 'gotchas' %}
If you do offer sign-up after checkout, make sure that the purchase the user just made is linked to 
their newly created account!
{% endAside %}

### Show checkout progress  {: #checkout-progress}

You can make your checkout process feel less complex by showing progress and making it clear what 
needs to be done next. The video below shows how UK retailer [johnlewis.com](https://www.johnlewis.com) 

> show checkout progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shows checkout progress.
```

<figure class="w-figure">
   <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">

>      <source src="https://samdutton.com/johnlewis.com.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Reviewer: It would be nice to keep that last frame with the 123 progress line a while longer. I think you might be able to achieve the same effect with the `poster` attribute? If you end up redoing the video, I suggest also trimming the searching and sorting lawnmowers from the beginning.

Author: I've updated the video to trim the lawnmower search/sort. I've also added a freeze frame at the end for a few seconds. I've also added a poster attribute, but I'm not sure if that works.

I wonder if I should take off the `loop` (and maybe `autoplay` as well).

BTW this and the other videos will need to be uploaded to the web.dev Google Cloud Storage bucket. Let me know if I can help with that.

   </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Show checkout progress</figcaption>
</figure>

You need to maintain momentum! For each step towards checkout, use descriptive buttons that make 
the next step obvious. For example, label the submit button on your shipping address form 

> **Proceed to Payment** rather than **Continue** or **Save**.

Reviewer: This sentence appears verbatim in the Make buttons helpful section. Not a big deal, but we should probably change it up a little.

Author: Oops... I've tweaked this section.

<figure class="w-figure">
   <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
     <source src="https://samdutton.com/address-form-save.mp4" type="video/mp4">
   </video>

>   <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Give form buttons meaningful names</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Give form buttons meaningful names.</figcaption>
```

</figure>

> Use the `enterkeyhint` attribute on form inputs to set the mobile keyboard enter key label. For 

Reviewer 2: TIL!

Author: Yeah! All sites should do this. I've even noticed this is wrong in Android settings...

</figure>

For returning users you can simplify the checkout flow even more, by hiding data they don't need to 
see. For example: display the delivery address in plain text (not in a form) and allow users to 
change it via a link. 

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="images/returning-user.png" alt="Screenshot of 'Review order' 
  section of checkout page, showing text in plain text, with links to change delivery address, 
  payment method and billing address, which are not displayed." width="450">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Hide data customers don't need to see.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Make it easy to enter name and address {: #address-forms}

### Only ask for the data you need {: #unneeded-data}

Before you start coding your name and address forms, make sure to understand what data is required. 
Don't ask for data you don't need! The simplest way to reduce form complexity is to remove unnecessary 
fields. That's also good for customer privacy and can reduce back-end data cost and liability.

### Use a single name input {: #single-name-input}

Allow your users to enter their name using a single input, unless you have a good reason for 

> separately storing given names, family names, honorifics or other name parts. Using a single name 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separately storing given names, family names, honorifics, or other name parts. Using a single name 
```

input makes forms less complex, enables cut-and-paste, and makes autofill simpler.

In particular, unless you have good reason not to, don't bother adding a separate input for a 

> prefix/title (like Mrs, Dr or Lord). Users can type that in with their name if they want to. Also, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prefix or title (like Mrs, Dr or Lord). Users can type that in with their name if they want to. Also, 
```

`honorific-prefix` autocomplete currently doesn't work in most browsers, and so adding a field for 

> name prefix/title will break the address form autofill experience for most users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name prefix or title will break the address form autofill experience for most users.
```

### Enable name autofill 

Use `name` for a full name:

```html
<input autocomplete="name" ...>
```

If you really do have a good reason to split out name parts, make sure to to use appropriate 
autocomplete values:

* `honorific-prefix`
* `given-name`
* `nickname`
* `additional-name-initial`
* `additional-name`
* `family-name`
* `honorific-suffix`

> ### Allow international names {: #unicode-matching}

Reviewer 2: One additional paragraph worthy tip:  
It's great to have phonetic name fields for a Japanese name. It helps customer support to call out the customer's name on the phone.

Author: Ah! Thank you. Added an aside.

You might want to validate your name inputs, or restrict the characters allowed for name data. However, 

> you need to be as unrestrictive as possible with alphabets. It's rude to be told your name is 'invalid'! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you need to be as unrestrictive as possible with alphabets. It's rude to be told your name is "invalid"! 
```

For validation, avoid using regular expressions that only match Latin characters. Latin-only excludes
users with names or addresses that include characters that aren't in the Latin alphabet. Allow Unicode 
letter matching instead—and ensure your back-end supports Unicode securely as both input and output. 
Unicode in regular expressions is well supported by modern browsers.

{% Compare 'worse' %}
```html
<!-- Names with non-Latin characters (such as Françoise or Jörg) are 'invalid'. -->
<input pattern="[\w \-]+" ...>
```
{% endCompare %}

{% Compare 'better' %}
```html
<!-- Accepts Unicode letters. -->
<input pattern="[\p{L} \-]+" ...>
```
{% endCompare %}

<figure class="w-figure">
   <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
     <source src="https://samdutton.com/unicode-letter-matching.mp4" type="video/mp4">
   </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Unicode letter matching compared to Latin-only letter matching.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Allow for a variety of address formats {: #address-variety}

When you're designing an address form, bear in mind the bewildering variety of address formats, 

> even within a single country. Be careful not to make assumptions about 'normal' addresses. (Take a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
even within a single country. Be careful not to make assumptions about "normal" addresses. (Take a 
```

> look at [UK Address Oddities!](http://www.paulplowman.com/stuff/uk-address-oddities/) if you're not 

Reviewer: Lol is everything about Britain from Harry Potter true? 😅

Author: Yes.

convinced!)

#### Make address forms flexible {:flexible-address}

> Don't force users to [shoe-horn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shoehorn#Turn_of_phrase) their address 

Reviewer: I think we should not distract readers with links to dictionaries (follow our own advice? :) [Thesaurus](https://www.thesaurus.com/browse/shoehorn) is not particularly helpful here but I'd still like us to try rephrasing this.

Author: Fair enough :). I've changed.

don't use that format, and incomplete data can break browser autofill.

Be especially careful with `required` address fields. For example, addresses in large cities in the 
UK do not have a county, but many sites still force users to enter one.

Using two flexible address lines can work well enough for a variety of address formats.  

```html
<input autocomplete="address-line-1" id="address-line1" ...>
<input autocomplete="address-line-2" id="address-line2" ...>
```

Add labels to match:

```html/0-2,5-7
<label for="address-line-1">
Address line 1 (or company name)
</label>
<input autocomplete="address-line-1" id="address-line1" ...>

<label for="address-line-2">
Address line 2 (optional)
</label>
<input autocomplete="address-line-2" id="address-line2" ...>
```
You can try this out by remixing and editing the demo embedded below.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
Research shows that [**Address line 2** may be problematic for users]((https://baymard.com/blog/address-line-2)). 
Bear this in mind when designing address forms—you should consider alternatives such as using a 
single `textarea` (see below) or other options.
{% endAside %}

> #### Consider using a single textarea for address {: #address-textarea}

Reviewer 2: Are you confident that `textarea` works well with `autocomplete`? I saw it autofill works with `street-address`, but what if the user  has nothing to autofill? The user will probably enter the text freely and the address data will not be reusable at all. Also I've never seen address field as a `textarea` before. (Not sure about outside of Japan though)

Author: I warn about the potential autofill problem in the article (`street-address` versus `address-line1`, etc.) although Chrome autofills a `textarea` with `autocomplete="street-address"` correctly. You can try this out at [address-form.glitch.me](https://address-form.glitch.me). In Chrome settings, you manage your street address as a single field, and AFAICT that's what's stored from forms with `address-line1`, etc. I'll check all this with Ali.

Whatever, I take your point — it is quite unusual to see `textarea` used like this. I think it's a good idea (there are a few UI/UX posts online about this) but if it's not what people expect, maybe we should be more careful about recommending it. 

I've used `textarea` in the codelab, but with a warning that in the real world you'll need to localize address forms. It's hard to provide an example address form that makes sense for a global audience.

There's also [research from Baymard](https://baymard.com/blog/address-line-2) (mentioned in the codelab) that shows **Address line 2** confuses users.

The most flexible option for addresses is to provide a single `textarea`.

> The textarea approach fits any address format, and it's great for cutting and pasting—but bear in 
> mind that it may not fit your data requirements, and users may miss out on autofill if they previously 
> only used forms with address-line1 and address-line2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `textarea` approach fits any address format, and it's great for cutting and pasting—but bear in 
mind that it may not fit your data requirements, and users may miss out on autofill if they previously 
only used forms with `address-line1` and `address-line2`.
```

For a textarea, use `street-address` as the autocomplete value.

> Here is an example of a form that demonstrates the use of a single textarea for address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of a form that demonstrates the use of a single `textarea` for address:
```

to maximize form flexibility (as described above) may be adequate. If you don't localize your address 
forms, make sure to understand the key priorities to cope with a range of address formats:
* Avoid being over-specific about address parts, such as insisting on a street name or house number.
* Where possible avoid making fields `required`. For example, addresses in many countries don't 
have a postal code, and rural addresses may not have a street or road name.
* Use inclusive naming: 'Country/region' not 'Country'; 'ZIP/postal code' not 'ZIP'.

Keep it flexible!

{% Aside %}
The [simple address form example above](#address-textarea) can be adapted to work 'well enough' 
for many locales.
{% endAside %}

#### Consider avoiding postal code address lookup {: #postal-code-address-lookup}

Some websites use a service to look up addresses based on postal code or ZIP. This may be sensible 
for some use cases, but you should be aware of the potential downsides.

Postal code address suggestion doesn't work for all countries—and in some regions, post codes can 
include a large number of potential addresses. 

> <figure class="w-figure">

Reviewer 2: This GIF hinted me to use `datalist` instead of `select` element. It's relatively widely available https://caniuse.com/datalist.

Author: Ah yes — I'm a big fan of datalist. Are you suggesting we use that for country, or something else?

Comparison (for years): https://datalist-select.glitch.me

I also made this as a prototype for what a standardized HTML element for multiple selections might look like: https://glitch.com/~multi-input

Reviewer 2: The website can use `datalist` to autocomplete from the long list. Autofill does work too though it requires user's prior entry of the same address.

   <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
     <source src="https://samdutton.com/long-list-of-addresses.mp4" type="video/mp4">
   </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">ZIP or postal codes may include a lot of addresses!</figcaption>
</figure>

It's difficult for users to select from a long list of addresses—especially on mobile if they're 
rushed or stressed. It can be easier and less error prone to let users take advantage of autofill, 
and enter their complete address filled with a single tap or click.

<figure class="w-figure">
   <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
     <source src="https://samdutton.com/full-name-autofill.mp4" type="video/mp4">
   </video>

>   <figcaption class="w-figcaption">A single name input enables one-tap/one-click address entry.</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">A single name input enables one-tap (one-click) address entry.</figcaption>
```

</figure>

* Use [appropriate payment card autocomplete values](#payment-form-autocomplete).
* Use a [single input for payment card numbers](#single-number-input).
* [Avoid using custom elements](#avoid-custom-elements) that break the autofill experience.
* [Test in the field as well as the lab](#analytics-rum): page analytics, interaction analytics, and 
real-user performance measurement.

> * [Test across browsers, devices and platforms](#test-platforms). 

Reviewer: Is this duplication of the checklist items here on purpose?

Author: Oops... no! Fixed.

## Simplify payment forms {: #general-guidelines}

Payment forms are the single most critical part of the checkout process. Poor payment form design is 
a [common cause of shopping cart abandonment](https://www.comscore.com/Insights/Presentations-and-Whitepapers/2017/Mobiles-Hierarchy-of-Needs). The [devil's in the details](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_devil_is_in_the_detail#cite_note-Titelman-1): small 
glitches can tip users towards abandoning a purchase, particularly on mobile. Your job is to design 
forms to make it as easy as possible for users to enter data.

### Help users avoid re-entering payment data {: #payment-form-autocomplete}

Make sure to add appropriate `autocomplete` values in payment card forms, including the payment card 
number, name on the card, and the expiry month and year:

> * cc-number
> * cc-name
> * cc-exp-month
> * cc-exp-year

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `cc-number`
* `cc-name`
* `cc-exp-month`
* `cc-exp-year`
```

This enables browsers help users by securely storing payment card details and correctly entering form 
data. Without autocomplete, users may be more likely to keep a physical record of payment card details, 
or store payment card data insecurely on their device.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
Don't add a selector for payment card type, since this can always be inferred from the payment card 
number.
{% endAside %}

### Avoid using custom elements for payment card dates

> Custom elements can interrupt payment flow by breaking autofill, and don't work on older browsers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom elements can interrupt payment flow by breaking autofill and they don't work on older browsers. 
```

> Custom elements can interrupt payment flow by breaking autofill and they don't work on older browsers. 

Reviewer 2: Is this "The custom elements"? https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/customElements

Add a link?

Author: Added a link (and tweaked the text slightly): https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements

Author: BTW — this was a point commented on by Dominic in the script: 'Don't use custom <select> elements ... There is very little value but you break the autofill experience and even users who memorize their CVC need to walk to their credit card to look the expiration date up.'

Reviewer 2: I was hoping this would be possible on a [`mwc-formfield`](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-web-components/issues/82). Haven't read closely yet but [for example](https://web.dev/more-capable-form-controls/#void-formresetcallback()).

Consider doing the same for other numeric data such as PIN and bank codes. 

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="images/credit-card-number-multiple-inputs.jpg" alt="Screenshot of payment form showing a 
  credit card field split into four input elements.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Don't use multiple inputs for a credit card number.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Validate carefully {: #validate}

You should validate data entry both in realtime and before form submission. One way to do this is by 
adding a `pattern` attribute to a payment card input. If the user attempts to submit the payment form 
with an invalid value, the browser displays a warning message and sets focus on the input. No 
JavaScript required! 

{% Glitch {
  id: 'payment-card-input',
  path: 'index.html',
  height: 170
} %}

However, your `pattern` regular expression must be flexible enough to handle [the range of payment card 
number lengths](https://github.com/jaemok/credit-card-input/blob/master/creditcard.js#L35): from 14 
digits (or possibly less) to 20 (or more). You can find out more about payment card number structuring 

> from [LDAPwiki](https://ldapwiki.com/wiki/Bank%20Card%20Number) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from [LDAPwiki](https://ldapwiki.com/wiki/Bank%20Card%20Number).
```

Allow users to include spaces when they're entering a new payment card number, since this is how 
numbers are displayed on physical cards. That's friendlier to the user (you won't have to tell them 

> 'they did something wrong'), less likely to interrupt conversion flow, and it's straightforward to 
> remove spaces in numbers before processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"they did something wrong"), less likely to interrupt conversion flow, and it's straightforward to 
remove spaces in numbers before processing.
```

{% Aside %}
You may want to use a one-time passcode for identity or payment verification. However, asking users 
to manually enter a code or copy it from an email or an SMS text is error-prone and a source of friction. 

> You can find out better ways to enable one-time passcodes from our article [SMS OTP form best practices](/sms-otp-form).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn about better ways to enable one-time passcodes in [SMS OTP form best practices](/sms-otp-form).
```

Author: 👍👍

{% endAside %}

## Test on a range of devices, platforms, browsers and versions {: #test-platforms}

It's particularly important to test address and payment forms on the platforms most common for 
your users, since form element functionality and appearance may vary, and differences in viewport 
size can lead to problematic positioning. BrowserStack enables [free testing for open source projects](https://www.browserstack.com/open-source) on a range of devices and browsers.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="images/browserstack.jpg" alt="Screenshots of a payment form, payment-form.glitch.me, on 
  iPhone 7 and 11. The Complete Payment button is shown on iPhone 11 but not 7">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">The same page on iPhone 7 and iPhone 11.<br>Reduce padding to 
    ensure the <strong>Complete payment</strong> button isn't hidden.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Implement analytics and RUM {: #analytics-rum}

Testing usability and performance locally can be helpful, but you need real-world data to properly 
understand how users experience your payment and address forms. 

> For that you need analytics and Real User Monitoring: data for the experience of actual users, such 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that you need analytics and Real User Monitoring—data for the experience of actual users, such 
```

as how long checkout pages take to load or how long payment takes to complete:

> * **Page analytics**: page views, bounce rates and exits for every page with a form.
> * **Interaction analytics**: [goal funnels](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6180923?hl=en) 
> (where do users abandon your checkout flow?) and [events](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/gtagjs/events) 
> (what actions do users take when interacting with your forms?)
> * **Website performance**: [user-centric metrics](/user-centric-performance-metrics) (Are your 
> checkout pages slow to load and, if so—what's the cause?).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Page analytics**: Page views, bounce rates and exits for every page with a form.
* **Interaction analytics**: [Goal funnels](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6180923?hl=en) 
and [events](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/gtagjs/events) 
indicate where users abandon your checkout flow and what actions do they take when interacting 
with your forms.
* **Website performance**: [User-centric metrics](/user-centric-performance-metrics) can tell you if your 
checkout pages are slow to load and, if so—what's the cause.
```

> Page analytics, interaction analytics and real user performance measurement become especially 
> valuable when combined with server logs, conversion data and A/B testing, enabling you to answer 
> questions such as whether discount codes increase revenue, or whether a change in form layout 
> improves conversions.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Page analytics, interaction analytics, and real user performance measurement become especially 
valuable when combined with server logs, conversion data, and A/B testing, enabling you to answer 
questions such as whether discount codes increase revenue, or whether a change in form layout 
improves conversions.

```

> That, in turn, gives you a solid basis for prioritizing effort, making changes and rewarding success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That, in turn, gives you a solid basis for prioritizing effort, making changes, and rewarding success.
```
